# PMU-Placement
Multi Objective Optimal location of Phasor Measuring Units Considering the Limitation of the Number Measuring Channel and the Effect of Zero Injection Bus and Transformers
Abstract: In this research, the multi-objective PMU placement is presented. Two objectives are fulfilled simultaneously which are the minimization of the equipment installation cost (i.e. minimizing the number of installed PMUs) along with the maximization of the system measure redundancy index which is equal to the maximization of system’s reliability. Moreover, the limitation on the number of PMU measurement channels is investigated for fulfilling the total system observability and increasing the measurement redundancy. In a power system, transformers tap is employed as an equipment for voltage regulation, however, the variation signal of this parameter is not mostly sent to the central control which leads to a severe disturbance in state estimation program. Consequently, transformers tap observability should be considered in PMU placement problem. Accordingly, a virtual bus is added to the grid in order to model the variant transformer tap. Due to the advantages of meta-heuristic methods, the multi-objective Gray wolf algorithm based on dominancy and Pareto criteria concepts is applied.
Keywords: Phasor measurement units, Measuring Redundancy, Zero injection bus, Limitation on the channel number, GWO algorithm.
Sajjad Ahmadi, MSc, Donya Ashtiani Haghighi, PHD student, Yazdan Ashgevari, Adel Akbarimajd
